README.md, before:

# Jmxtrans Agent


## What is jmxtrans-agent ?

jmxtrans-agent is a version of [jmxtrans](http://jmxtrans.org/) intended to be used as a java agent. JmxTrans Agent has zero dependencies to ease integration.

## Java Agent Declaration

Download [jmxtrans-agent-1.2.0.jar](http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/jmxtrans/agent/jmxtrans-agent/1.2.0/jmxtrans-agent-1.2.0.jar)

Sample `setenv.sh` for Apache Tomcat

```
export JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -javaagent:/path/to/jmxtrans-agent-1.1.0.jar=jmxtrans-agent.xml"
```

* java agent jar path can be relative to the working dir
* `jmxtrans-agent.xml` is the configuration file, can be classpath relative (`classpath:…`), http(s) (`http(s)://...`) or file system system based (relative to the working dir)

## Query configuration

### Simple mono-valued attribute

Use `attribute` to specify the value to lookup. See `javax.management.MBeanServer.getAttribute(objectName, attribute)`.

```xml
<query objectName="java.lang:type=Threading" attribute="ThreadCount"
   resultAlias="jvm.thread"/>
```


### MBean Composite Data attribute

Use `key` to specify the key of the CompositeData. See `javax.management.openmbean.CompositeData#get(key)`.

```xml
 <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" key="used"
    resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.used"/>
```

* You can collect all the keys of the composite data omitting `key` in the `<query />` declaration.
* Use the expression language `#key#` (or its synonym `#compositeDataKey#`) in the `resultAlias` to use the composite data key in the metric name. Sample:

```xml
 <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.#key#"/>
```

### Multi-valued data (Iterable or array)

Use `position` to specify the value to lookup. Position is `0 based.

```xml
 <query objectName="MyApp:type=MyMBean" attribute="MyMultiValuedAttribute" position="2"
    resultAlias="myMBean.myMultiValuedAttributeValue"/>
```

* `position` is 0 based
* You can collect all the entries of the multi-valued data omitting `position` in the `<query />` declaration.
* Use the expression language `#position#` in the `resultAlias` to use the multi-valued data position in the metric name. Sample:

       ```xml
 <query objectName="MyApp:type=MyMBean" attribute="MyMultiValuedAttribute" resultAlias="myMBean.myMultiValuedAttributeValue"/>
```

* If no `resultAlias` is specified, the generated metric name is suffixed by `_#position#`. Sample:

       ```
myMBean.myMultiValuedAttributeValue_0`
```


## Sample configuration file

Sample `jmxtrans-agent.xml` configuration file for Tomcat:

```xml
<jmxtrans-agent>
    <queries>
        <!-- OS -->
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=OperatingSystem" attribute="SystemLoadAverage" resultAlias="os.systemLoadAverage"/>

        <!-- JVM -->
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" key="used"
               resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.used"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" key="committed"
               resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.committed"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="NonHeapMemoryUsage" key="used"
               resultAlias="jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.used"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="NonHeapMemoryUsage" key="committed"
               resultAlias="jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.committed"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=ClassLoading" attribute="LoadedClassCount" resultAlias="jvm.loadedClasses"/>

        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Threading" attribute="ThreadCount" resultAlias="jvm.thread"/>

        <!-- TOMCAT -->
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=GlobalRequestProcessor,name=*" attribute="requestCount"
               resultAlias="tomcat.requestCount"/>
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=GlobalRequestProcessor,name=*" attribute="errorCount"
               resultAlias="tomcat.errorCount"/>
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=GlobalRequestProcessor,name=*" attribute="processingTime"
               resultAlias="tomcat.processingTime"/>
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=GlobalRequestProcessor,name=*" attribute="bytesSent"
               resultAlias="tomcat.bytesSent"/>
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=GlobalRequestProcessor,name=*" attribute="bytesReceived"
               resultAlias="tomcat.bytesReceived"/>

        <!-- APPLICATION -->
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=Manager,context=/,host=localhost" attribute="activeSessions"
               resultAlias="application.activeSessions"/>
    </queries>
    <outputWriter class="org.jmxtrans.agent.GraphitePlainTextTcpOutputWriter">
        <host>localhost</host>
        <port>2003</port>
        <namePrefix>app_123456.servers.i876543.</namePrefix>
    </outputWriter>
    <outputWriter class="org.jmxtrans.agent.ConsoleOutputWriter"/>
    <collectIntervalInSeconds>20</collectIntervalInSeconds>
</jmxtrans-agent>
```

**Note** why xml and not json ? because XML parsing is out of the box in the JVM when json requires additional libraries.



## OutputWriters

OutputWriters are very simple to develop, you just have to extend [AbstractOutputWriter.java](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/AbstractOutputWriter.java) or to implement [OutputWriter.java](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/OutputWriter.java).

Out of the box output writers

* [GraphitePlainTextTcpOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/GraphitePlainTextTcpOutputWriter.java): output to Graphite Carbon plain text protocol on TCP. Configuration parameters:
  * `enabled`: to enable/disable the output writer. Optional, default value `true` 
  * `host`: Graphite Carbon listener host
  * `port`: Graphite Carbon Plain Text TCP listener port. Optional, default value `2003`
  * `namePrefix`; prefix of the metric name. Optional, default values `servers.#hostname#.` where `#hostname#` is the auto discovered hostname of computer with `.` escaped as `_` (`InetAddress.getLocalHost().getHostName()`).
* [FileOverwriterOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/FileOverwriterOutputWriter.java): store the last collection of metrics in a file. Configuration parameters:
  * `fileName`: name of the file in which the collected metrics are stored. Optional, default value `jmxtrans-agent.data` (in JVM working dir, for example `$TOMCAT_HOME/bin`)
  * `showTimeStamp`: true or false value that determines if the time stamp is printed with the lines.  Optional tag, default is `false.
* [SummarizingFileOverwriterOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/SummarizingFileOverwriterOutputWriter.java): Similar to the `FileOverwriterOutputWriter` but displays "per minute" values for counters of type `counter`
* [ConsoleOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/ConsoleOutputWriter.java): output metric values to `stdout`
* [SummarizingConsoleOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/SummarizingConsoleOutputWriter.java): Similar to the `ConsoleOutputWriter` but displays "per minute" values for counters of type `counter`
* [RollingFileOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/RollingFileOutputWriter.java)
  * `fileName`: name of the file in which the collected metrics are stored. Optional, default value `jmxtrans-agent.data` (in JVM working dir, for example `$TOMCAT_HOME/bin`)
  * `maxFileSize`: Maximum file size in MB before file is rolled. Optional, default is `10`
  * `maxBackupIndex`: Maximum number of files. Optional, default is `5
* [StatsDOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/StatsDOutputWriter.java): output to StatD. Configuration parameters:
  * `host`: StatsD listener host
  * `port`: StatsD listener port
  * `metricName`: metric name prefix. Optional, default value is machine hostname or IP (all `.` are scaped as `_`).
  * `bufferSize`: max buffer size. Holds data to be sent. Optional, default value is 1024.

Output writers configuration support  an expression language based on property placeholders with the `{prop-name[:default-value]}` syntax (e.g. "`${graphite.host:2003}`").

The `default-value` is optional. An exception is raised if no default value is defined and the property placeholder is not found.

Environment variables are looked-up in the following order:

1. JVM system properties (```System.getProperty("graphite.host")```)
1. JVM environment variables (```System.getenv("graphite.host")```)
1. JVM environment variables after a "to-upper-case + dot-to-underscore" transformation (```System.getenv("GRAPHITE_HOST")```)

### Sample of ConsoleOutputWriter

```
os.systemLoadAverage 1.80419921875 1366199958
jvm.heapMemoryUsage.used 20438792 1366199958
jvm.heapMemoryUsage.committed 119668736 1366199958
jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.used 15953560 1366199958
jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.committed 24313856 1366199958
jvm.loadedClasses 2162 1366199958
jvm.thread 13 1366199958
tomcat.requestCount 0 1366199958
tomcat.requestCount 0 1366199958
tomcat.errorCount 0 1366199958
tomcat.errorCount 0 1366199958
tomcat.processingTime 0 1366199958
tomcat.processingTime 0 1366199958
tomcat.bytesSent 0 1366199958
tomcat.bytesSent 0 1366199958
tomcat.bytesReceived 0 1366199958
tomcat.bytesReceived 0 1366199958
application.activeSessions 0 1366199958
```

### Sample of FileOverwriterOutputWriter

```
os.systemLoadAverage 1.27734375
jvm.heapMemoryUsage.used 33436016
jvm.heapMemoryUsage.committed 133365760
jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.used 23623096
jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.committed 24707072
jvm.loadedClasses 3002
jvm.thread 21
tomcat.requestCount 27
tomcat.requestCount 0
tomcat.errorCount 0
tomcat.errorCount 0
tomcat.processingTime 881
tomcat.processingTime 0
tomcat.bytesSent 135816
tomcat.bytesSent 0
tomcat.bytesReceived 0
tomcat.bytesReceived 0
application.activeSessions 0
```

## ResultNameStrategy

The `ResultNameStrategy` is the component in charge of building the metric name. The default implementation uses the `resultAlias`  if provided
and otherwise will build the metric name using the `ObjectName`.

You can use your own implementation for the `ResultNameStrategy`

```xml
<resultNameStrategy class="com.mycompany.jmxtrans.agent.MyResultNameStrategyImpl">
   <attrA>valA</attrA>
   <atttrB>valB</atttrB>
</resultNameStrategy>
```

You then have to make this implementation available in the classpath (adding it the the jmxtrans-agent jar, adding it to the boot classpath ...)

# Relase Notes

* [Milestones history](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/issues/milestones?state=closed)
* [Releases](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/releases)

# Sample ActiveMQ Configuration

* Create directory `${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/jmxtrans-agent/`
* Copy `jmxtrans-agent-1.1.0.jar` under `${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/jmxtrans-agent/`
* Update `${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/bin/activemq`, add in `invoke_start()` and `invoke_console()`:
    ```
JMXTRANS_AGENT="-javaagent:${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/jmxtrans-agent/jmxtrans-agent-1.1.0.jar=${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/jmxtrans-agent/jmxtrans-agent-activemq.xml"
ACTIVEMQ_OPTS="$ACTIVEMQ_OPTS $JMXTRANS_AGENT"
```
* Copy to `${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/jmxtrans-agent/` a config file similar to
    ```xml
<jmxtrans-agent>
    <queries>
        <!-- OS -->
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=OperatingSystem" attribute="SystemLoadAverage"
               resultAlias="os.systemLoadAverage"/>

        <!-- JVM -->
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" key="used"
               resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.used"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" key="committed"
               resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.committed"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="NonHeapMemoryUsage" key="used"
               resultAlias="jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.used"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="NonHeapMemoryUsage" key="committed"
               resultAlias="jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.committed"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=ClassLoading" attribute="LoadedClassCount" resultAlias="jvm.loadedClasses"/>

        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Threading" attribute="ThreadCount" resultAlias="jvm.thread"/>

        <!-- ACTIVE MQ -->
        <query objectName="org.apache.activemq:type=Broker,brokerName=*,destinationType=Queue,destinationName=*"
               attribute="QueueSize" resultAlias="activemq.%brokerName%.queue.%destinationName%.QueueSize"/>
        <query objectName="org.apache.activemq:type=Broker,brokerName=*,destinationType=Queue,destinationName=*"
               attribute="EnqueueCount" resultAlias="activemq.%brokerName%.queue.%destinationName%.EnqueueCount"/>
        <query objectName="org.apache.activemq:type=Broker,brokerName=*,destinationType=Queue,destinationName=*"
               attribute="ExpiredCount" resultAlias="activemq.%brokerName%.queue.%destinationName%.ExpiredCount"/>
        <query objectName="org.apache.activemq:type=Broker,brokerName=*,destinationType=Queue,destinationName=*"
               attribute="DequeueCount" resultAlias="activemq.%brokerName%.queue.%destinationName%.DequeueCount"/>

        <query objectName="org.apache.activemq:type=Broker,brokerName=*,destinationType=Topic,destinationName=*"
               attribute="EnqueueCount" resultAlias="activemq.%brokerName%.topic.%destinationName%.EnqueueCount"/>
    </queries>
    <outputWriter class="org.jmxtrans.agent.GraphitePlainTextTcpOutputWriter">
        <host>localhost</host>
        <port>2203</port>
    </outputWriter>
    <outputWriter class="org.jmxtrans.agent.ConsoleOutputWriter">
        <enabled>false</enabled>
    </outputWriter>
    <outputWriter class="org.jmxtrans.agent.RollingFileOutputWriter">
      <fileName>rollingJMXOutputFile</fileName>
      <maxFileSize>10</maxFileSize>
      <maxBackupIndex>4</maxBackupIndex>
   </outputWriter>
</jmxtrans-agent>
```

# Release Notes

See https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/releases

Commit message:

Updated readme with information about attributes support

README.md, after:

# Jmxtrans Agent


## What is jmxtrans-agent ?

jmxtrans-agent is a version of [jmxtrans](http://jmxtrans.org/) intended to be used as a java agent. JmxTrans Agent has zero dependencies to ease integration.

## Java Agent Declaration

Download [jmxtrans-agent-1.2.0.jar](http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/jmxtrans/agent/jmxtrans-agent/1.2.0/jmxtrans-agent-1.2.0.jar)

Sample `setenv.sh` for Apache Tomcat

```
export JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -javaagent:/path/to/jmxtrans-agent-1.1.0.jar=jmxtrans-agent.xml"
```

* java agent jar path can be relative to the working dir
* `jmxtrans-agent.xml` is the configuration file, can be classpath relative (`classpath:…`), http(s) (`http(s)://...`) or file system system based (relative to the working dir)

## Query configuration

### Selecting attributes

To select which attributes to collect, use the `attribute` or `attributes` attribute on the `query` element. `attribute` accepts a
single attribute while `attributes` accepts a comma-separated list of attributes to collect. If you do not specify any attributes, all attributes
of the MBean will be dynamically discovered and collected. Use the expression language `#attribute#` in the `resultAlias`
to use the attribute name in the metric name when collecting many attributes.

Example - collect the `ThreadCount` attribute from the Threading MBean:

```xml
<query objectName="java.lang:type=Threading" attribute="ThreadCount"
   resultAlias="jvm.thread.count"/>
```

Example - collect `ThreadCount` and `TotalStartedThreadCount` from the Threading MBean:

```xml
<query objectName="java.lang:type=Threading" attributes="ThreadCount,TotalStartedThreadCount"
  resultAlias="jvm.threads.#attribute#"/>
```

Example - collect all attributes from the Threading MBean:

```xml
<query objectName="java.lang:type=Threading" resultAlias="jvm.threads.#attribute#"/>
```


### Simple mono-valued attribute

Use `attribute` or `attributes` to specify the values to lookup. No additional configuration is required.
See `javax.management.MBeanServer.getAttribute(objectName, attribute)`.

```xml
<query objectName="java.lang:type=Threading" attribute="ThreadCount"
   resultAlias="jvm.thread"/>
```


### MBean Composite Data attribute

Use `key` to specify the key of the CompositeData. See `javax.management.openmbean.CompositeData#get(key)`.

```xml
 <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" key="used"
    resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.used"/>
```

* You can collect all the keys of the composite data omitting `key` in the `<query />` declaration.
* Use the expression language `#key#` (or its synonym `#compositeDataKey#`) in the `resultAlias` to use the composite data key in the metric name. Sample:

```xml
 <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.#key#"/>
```

### Multi-valued data (Iterable or array)

Use `position` to specify the value to lookup. Position is `0 based.

```xml
 <query objectName="MyApp:type=MyMBean" attribute="MyMultiValuedAttribute" position="2"
    resultAlias="myMBean.myMultiValuedAttributeValue"/>
```

* `position` is 0 based
* You can collect all the entries of the multi-valued data omitting `position` in the `<query />` declaration.
* Use the expression language `#position#` in the `resultAlias` to use the multi-valued data position in the metric name. Sample:

       ```xml
 <query objectName="MyApp:type=MyMBean" attribute="MyMultiValuedAttribute" resultAlias="myMBean.myMultiValuedAttributeValue"/>
```

* If no `resultAlias` is specified, the generated metric name is suffixed by `_#position#`. Sample:

       ```
myMBean.myMultiValuedAttributeValue_0`
```


## Sample configuration file

Sample `jmxtrans-agent.xml` configuration file for Tomcat:

```xml
<jmxtrans-agent>
    <queries>
        <!-- OS -->
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=OperatingSystem" attribute="SystemLoadAverage" resultAlias="os.systemLoadAverage"/>

        <!-- JVM -->
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" key="used"
               resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.used"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" key="committed"
               resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.committed"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="NonHeapMemoryUsage" key="used"
               resultAlias="jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.used"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="NonHeapMemoryUsage" key="committed"
               resultAlias="jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.committed"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=ClassLoading" attribute="LoadedClassCount" resultAlias="jvm.loadedClasses"/>

        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Threading" attribute="ThreadCount" resultAlias="jvm.thread"/>

        <!-- TOMCAT -->
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=GlobalRequestProcessor,name=*" attribute="requestCount"
               resultAlias="tomcat.requestCount"/>
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=GlobalRequestProcessor,name=*" attribute="errorCount"
               resultAlias="tomcat.errorCount"/>
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=GlobalRequestProcessor,name=*" attribute="processingTime"
               resultAlias="tomcat.processingTime"/>
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=GlobalRequestProcessor,name=*" attribute="bytesSent"
               resultAlias="tomcat.bytesSent"/>
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=GlobalRequestProcessor,name=*" attribute="bytesReceived"
               resultAlias="tomcat.bytesReceived"/>

        <!-- APPLICATION -->
        <query objectName="Catalina:type=Manager,context=/,host=localhost" attribute="activeSessions"
               resultAlias="application.activeSessions"/>
    </queries>
    <outputWriter class="org.jmxtrans.agent.GraphitePlainTextTcpOutputWriter">
        <host>localhost</host>
        <port>2003</port>
        <namePrefix>app_123456.servers.i876543.</namePrefix>
    </outputWriter>
    <outputWriter class="org.jmxtrans.agent.ConsoleOutputWriter"/>
    <collectIntervalInSeconds>20</collectIntervalInSeconds>
</jmxtrans-agent>
```

**Note** why xml and not json ? because XML parsing is out of the box in the JVM when json requires additional libraries.



## OutputWriters

OutputWriters are very simple to develop, you just have to extend [AbstractOutputWriter.java](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/AbstractOutputWriter.java) or to implement [OutputWriter.java](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/OutputWriter.java).

Out of the box output writers

* [GraphitePlainTextTcpOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/GraphitePlainTextTcpOutputWriter.java): output to Graphite Carbon plain text protocol on TCP. Configuration parameters:
  * `enabled`: to enable/disable the output writer. Optional, default value `true` 
  * `host`: Graphite Carbon listener host
  * `port`: Graphite Carbon Plain Text TCP listener port. Optional, default value `2003`
  * `namePrefix`; prefix of the metric name. Optional, default values `servers.#hostname#.` where `#hostname#` is the auto discovered hostname of computer with `.` escaped as `_` (`InetAddress.getLocalHost().getHostName()`).
* [FileOverwriterOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/FileOverwriterOutputWriter.java): store the last collection of metrics in a file. Configuration parameters:
  * `fileName`: name of the file in which the collected metrics are stored. Optional, default value `jmxtrans-agent.data` (in JVM working dir, for example `$TOMCAT_HOME/bin`)
  * `showTimeStamp`: true or false value that determines if the time stamp is printed with the lines.  Optional tag, default is `false.
* [SummarizingFileOverwriterOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/SummarizingFileOverwriterOutputWriter.java): Similar to the `FileOverwriterOutputWriter` but displays "per minute" values for counters of type `counter`
* [ConsoleOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/ConsoleOutputWriter.java): output metric values to `stdout`
* [SummarizingConsoleOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/SummarizingConsoleOutputWriter.java): Similar to the `ConsoleOutputWriter` but displays "per minute" values for counters of type `counter`
* [RollingFileOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/RollingFileOutputWriter.java)
  * `fileName`: name of the file in which the collected metrics are stored. Optional, default value `jmxtrans-agent.data` (in JVM working dir, for example `$TOMCAT_HOME/bin`)
  * `maxFileSize`: Maximum file size in MB before file is rolled. Optional, default is `10`
  * `maxBackupIndex`: Maximum number of files. Optional, default is `5
* [StatsDOutputWriter](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/blob/master/src/main/java/org/jmxtrans/agent/StatsDOutputWriter.java): output to StatD. Configuration parameters:
  * `host`: StatsD listener host
  * `port`: StatsD listener port
  * `metricName`: metric name prefix. Optional, default value is machine hostname or IP (all `.` are scaped as `_`).
  * `bufferSize`: max buffer size. Holds data to be sent. Optional, default value is 1024.

Output writers configuration support  an expression language based on property placeholders with the `{prop-name[:default-value]}` syntax (e.g. "`${graphite.host:2003}`").

The `default-value` is optional. An exception is raised if no default value is defined and the property placeholder is not found.

Environment variables are looked-up in the following order:

1. JVM system properties (```System.getProperty("graphite.host")```)
1. JVM environment variables (```System.getenv("graphite.host")```)
1. JVM environment variables after a "to-upper-case + dot-to-underscore" transformation (```System.getenv("GRAPHITE_HOST")```)

### Sample of ConsoleOutputWriter

```
os.systemLoadAverage 1.80419921875 1366199958
jvm.heapMemoryUsage.used 20438792 1366199958
jvm.heapMemoryUsage.committed 119668736 1366199958
jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.used 15953560 1366199958
jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.committed 24313856 1366199958
jvm.loadedClasses 2162 1366199958
jvm.thread 13 1366199958
tomcat.requestCount 0 1366199958
tomcat.requestCount 0 1366199958
tomcat.errorCount 0 1366199958
tomcat.errorCount 0 1366199958
tomcat.processingTime 0 1366199958
tomcat.processingTime 0 1366199958
tomcat.bytesSent 0 1366199958
tomcat.bytesSent 0 1366199958
tomcat.bytesReceived 0 1366199958
tomcat.bytesReceived 0 1366199958
application.activeSessions 0 1366199958
```

### Sample of FileOverwriterOutputWriter

```
os.systemLoadAverage 1.27734375
jvm.heapMemoryUsage.used 33436016
jvm.heapMemoryUsage.committed 133365760
jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.used 23623096
jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.committed 24707072
jvm.loadedClasses 3002
jvm.thread 21
tomcat.requestCount 27
tomcat.requestCount 0
tomcat.errorCount 0
tomcat.errorCount 0
tomcat.processingTime 881
tomcat.processingTime 0
tomcat.bytesSent 135816
tomcat.bytesSent 0
tomcat.bytesReceived 0
tomcat.bytesReceived 0
application.activeSessions 0
```

## ResultNameStrategy

The `ResultNameStrategy` is the component in charge of building the metric name. The default implementation uses the `resultAlias`  if provided
and otherwise will build the metric name using the `ObjectName`.

You can use your own implementation for the `ResultNameStrategy`

```xml
<resultNameStrategy class="com.mycompany.jmxtrans.agent.MyResultNameStrategyImpl">
   <attrA>valA</attrA>
   <atttrB>valB</atttrB>
</resultNameStrategy>
```

You then have to make this implementation available in the classpath (adding it the the jmxtrans-agent jar, adding it to the boot classpath ...)

# Relase Notes

* [Milestones history](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/issues/milestones?state=closed)
* [Releases](https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/releases)

# Sample ActiveMQ Configuration

* Create directory `${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/jmxtrans-agent/`
* Copy `jmxtrans-agent-1.1.0.jar` under `${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/jmxtrans-agent/`
* Update `${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/bin/activemq`, add in `invoke_start()` and `invoke_console()`:
    ```
JMXTRANS_AGENT="-javaagent:${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/jmxtrans-agent/jmxtrans-agent-1.1.0.jar=${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/jmxtrans-agent/jmxtrans-agent-activemq.xml"
ACTIVEMQ_OPTS="$ACTIVEMQ_OPTS $JMXTRANS_AGENT"
```
* Copy to `${ACTIVEMQ_HOME}/jmxtrans-agent/` a config file similar to
    ```xml
<jmxtrans-agent>
    <queries>
        <!-- OS -->
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=OperatingSystem" attribute="SystemLoadAverage"
               resultAlias="os.systemLoadAverage"/>

        <!-- JVM -->
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" key="used"
               resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.used"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="HeapMemoryUsage" key="committed"
               resultAlias="jvm.heapMemoryUsage.committed"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="NonHeapMemoryUsage" key="used"
               resultAlias="jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.used"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Memory" attribute="NonHeapMemoryUsage" key="committed"
               resultAlias="jvm.nonHeapMemoryUsage.committed"/>
        <query objectName="java.lang:type=ClassLoading" attribute="LoadedClassCount" resultAlias="jvm.loadedClasses"/>

        <query objectName="java.lang:type=Threading" attribute="ThreadCount" resultAlias="jvm.thread"/>

        <!-- ACTIVE MQ -->
        <query objectName="org.apache.activemq:type=Broker,brokerName=*,destinationType=Queue,destinationName=*"
               attribute="QueueSize" resultAlias="activemq.%brokerName%.queue.%destinationName%.QueueSize"/>
        <query objectName="org.apache.activemq:type=Broker,brokerName=*,destinationType=Queue,destinationName=*"
               attribute="EnqueueCount" resultAlias="activemq.%brokerName%.queue.%destinationName%.EnqueueCount"/>
        <query objectName="org.apache.activemq:type=Broker,brokerName=*,destinationType=Queue,destinationName=*"
               attribute="ExpiredCount" resultAlias="activemq.%brokerName%.queue.%destinationName%.ExpiredCount"/>
        <query objectName="org.apache.activemq:type=Broker,brokerName=*,destinationType=Queue,destinationName=*"
               attribute="DequeueCount" resultAlias="activemq.%brokerName%.queue.%destinationName%.DequeueCount"/>

        <query objectName="org.apache.activemq:type=Broker,brokerName=*,destinationType=Topic,destinationName=*"
               attribute="EnqueueCount" resultAlias="activemq.%brokerName%.topic.%destinationName%.EnqueueCount"/>
    </queries>
    <outputWriter class="org.jmxtrans.agent.GraphitePlainTextTcpOutputWriter">
        <host>localhost</host>
        <port>2203</port>
    </outputWriter>
    <outputWriter class="org.jmxtrans.agent.ConsoleOutputWriter">
        <enabled>false</enabled>
    </outputWriter>
    <outputWriter class="org.jmxtrans.agent.RollingFileOutputWriter">
      <fileName>rollingJMXOutputFile</fileName>
      <maxFileSize>10</maxFileSize>
      <maxBackupIndex>4</maxBackupIndex>
   </outputWriter>
</jmxtrans-agent>
```

# Release Notes

See https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans-agent/releases
